OBJECT OF THE GAME

In Bloc by Bloc: The Insurrection Game, players join a vibrant popular rebellion 
struggling to liberate a city that changes with every game. Each player controls 
a faction of revolutionaries fighting back against the State. The insurrection is 
successful if occupations are built in all State districts before time runs out and 
the military arrives. 

When playing semi-cooperatively: Each player must complete the objectives 
for one of the options on their agenda card in order to win. Most players will be 
working cooperatively, trying to win together, but some may secretly be trying 
to win alone.

When playing fully cooperatively: All players will be working cooperatively and 
win together if the insurrection is successful.

See page 16 for details on winning and losing the game.

T H E   I N S U R R E C T I O N   G A M E

D ES

IN CL U

10 SCE N A RIO
Mini Expansion

SETUP 
4 Players

The setup steps below correspond to 
the numbers on the opposite page. 

1
     Create the city: Follow the steps  
on page 7 to randomly generate a 
unique city.
Beginner game: You may option-
ally choose to skip the random city 
generation steps on page 7 and simply 
build the beginner city shown on the 
opposite page. If you do, make sure to 
place 1 manifestation card face down 
underneath each district tile. Make 
sure to place district tiles so that the 
word “Liberated” is face down. Put  
the 3 unused manifestation cards  
and 5 unused district tiles back in  
the game box.

2
     Set up the countdown panel:  
Place the countdown panel next to the 
city. Put the countdown marker on the 
8 nights left space. 
Beginner game: Put the countdown 
marker on the 6 nights left space. 

3
     Set up the loot deck: Shuffle the 
loot cards and place them face down 
next to the countdown panel. Make 
sure there is room for a discard pile. 

4
     Set up the tokens & dice: Put the 
loot tokens and barricades in piles 
within reach of all players. Set the 
action dice and reaction die next to  
the city.

3 Players

First time playing?  

Learn the rules by following the  
steps for the Beginner game.

See page 20 for a complete  

list of components.

5
     Deploy police to the State districts: 
Place 1 riot van and 3 riot cops in each 
State district tile. State districts have 
white circles.
Beginner game: Place 1 riot van in 
each State district tile. If you used the 
beginner city on the opposite page, 
place 1 riot van in The Stadium district. 
Place 3 riot cops next to each riot van. 
6
     Set up the police morale panel: 
Place the police morale panel next 
to the city and put all remaining riot 
cops and riot vans in the staging area 
section of the panel. Put the police 
morale marker under Timid on the 
police morale track.

7
     Set up the police ops deck:  
Shuffle the police ops cards and place 
them face down next to the police 
morale board. Make sure there is room 
for a discard pile.
To modify the difficulty:
• Easy: Remove 2 Paramilitary  

Operations cards from the police  
ops deck and place them back in  
the game box.

• Medium: Remove 1 Paramilitary 

Operations card and place it back  
in the game box.

• Hard: Use all 3 Paramilitary  

Operations cards.

Beginner game: Play on Easy. 

     Randomly assign a faction to 
8
each player: Randomly assign each 
player one of the four factions. Pass 
out the matching faction mat and 
corresponding pieces (5 occupations, 
10 blocs). Place all occupations and 
blocs in their corresponding locations 
on each of the faction mats. Give each 
player 1 cheatsheet. Deal 2 loot cards 
face down to each player. Players may 
look at their loot cards.

9
     Assign agendas: Shuffle the agenda 
cards and deal 1 to each faction. Put 
the rest of the agenda cards back in 
the game box without looking at them. 
When playing fully cooperatively, do 
not use the agenda deck. Put the entire 
deck back in the game box.
Beginner game: Play fully cooperatively.

10
     Choose starting districts:  
Each faction must choose one of their 
own districts as their starting location 
by placing their Start occupation in 
that district’s occupation circle. Each 
faction must place 1 of their blocs next 
to their Start occupation. 
11
     Determine first faction:  
Roll to determine which faction goes 
first. The faction with the highest roll 
takes the first faction marker and 
begins the game.

Follow the 4 player setup steps with these changes: After creating the city, 
replace the Financial District tile with The Stadium district tile, so that there are 
only 3 State districts in the city. Place 1 riot van in each State district and 1 in The 
Stadium. Place 3 riot cops next to each riot van. Randomly assign each player one 
faction. Place pieces for the unused fourth faction back in the game box.

Beginner game for 3 players: Put the 
countdown marker on the 8 nights left 
space of the countdown panel.

2 Players

Follow the 4 player setup steps. Each player will play 2 of the four factions.  
Play fully cooperatively by not using the Agenda deck.

PAGE 2

Fully Cooperative Setup

Do not use the agenda deck. Put the 
entire deck back in the game box. If the 
insurrection is successful, all factions 
win the game.

BLOC BY BLOCBlocs

8

Occupations

Faction Mat

Loot Cards

Countdown Marker

2

Riot Cops

Riot Vans

Countdown Panel

Police Morale Marker

6

Police Morale Panel

3

5

11

First Faction 

Marker

SETUP

9

Agenda Cards

Police Ops 
Cards
7

District Tiles

1

Manifestation

Cards

10

MANIFESTATION

4

Barricades

Action Dice

Reaction Die

Loot Tokens

QUICKSTART GUIDE

Read This First! Read the 2 page Quickstart Guide for a brief overview before you 
dive into the details in the rest of the rulebook. 

Bloc by Bloc is played in a city made up of 25 district tiles connected by streets, 
highways, and metro stations. Each player controls one of four factions in the 
city: the Workers, the Neighbors, the Students, or the Prisoners. All players are 
referred to as factions. Each faction has a corresponding set of districts in the 
city. The police and the State are the common enemies of all factions. Occupa-
tions must be built in all State districts by any combination of factions for the 
insurrection to be successful. See page 6 for more information about the city.

Bloc by Bloc is played in rounds. Each 
round is 1 night and each night has 
2 phases. The Sunset phase is when 
each faction gets to take its turn. After 
all factions have taken their turns, the 
Sunrise phase begins, which is when 
police attack and factions have a chance 
to liberate districts. See the cheatsheet 
for an overview of each night.

PRISONERS

WORKERS

STUDENTS

NEIGHBORS

VS.

STATE

Sunset Overview

During the Sunset phase, each faction 
takes a turn. Each faction’s turn is 
made up of 3 steps:

Step 1. Roll Action Dice

Form 1 bloc at your Start occupation 
by taking 1 bloc from your faction mat 
and placing it in the same district as 
your Start occupation. Roll 3-5 action 
dice (depending on the number of 
blocs you now have in the city). See 
your faction mat or page 8 for details.

MINIMUM

6+ BLOCS

9+ BLOCS

ROLL 4ACTION
3ACTION

ROLL 5ACTION

ROLL

DICE

DICE

DICE

Step 2. Faction Actions 

Use your blocs to take 1 action with 
each action die you rolled. You can 
only take actions in districts where 
you have blocs. You can take the same 
action multiple times in the same turn 
and you can take actions in any order. 
There are 3 types of actions:

• Basic actions: Movement & 

Barricade

• Advanced actions: Loot, Build  
Occupation & Swap Occupation

• Attack actions: Defeat 1 Riot Cop, 

Kick Out 2 Riot Cops & Attack a  
Riot Van

PAGE 4

A bloc is considered to be in a clash 
anytime it is in the same district with a 
riot van or riot cops. You can only take 
basic and advanced actions with blocs 
that are not in a clash and you can only 
take attack actions with blocs that are 
in a clash.

A Prisoners bloc in a  
clash with riot cops

It takes 1 action die to take 1 action. 
If you rolled 4 action dice, you get to 
take 4 actions. To take basic actions, 
you can use a die of any value. To take 
advanced or attack actions, you must 
use an action die equal to or greater 
than the difficulty of the district that 
you are taking the action in. The 
district difficulty is the big number is 
the middle of the tile. If the district’s 
difficulty is 4, then you must use a die 
with a value of 4, 5, or 6. See page 6 for 
more information about district tiles.

When you take riskier actions, you 
must make a reaction roll to see if 
the police respond to your action. You 
must make 1 reaction roll after each 
advanced action, but you only have to 
make 1 reaction roll after all consecu-
tive attack actions in the same clash.

See the cheatsheet or pages 8-11 for 
a detailed explanation of each action.

Step 3. Police Ops 

Draw 1-3 police ops cards (depending 
on the police morale) and resolve  
each card one at a time. See pages 
12-13 for more information about 
police ops cards.

In Bloc by Bloc, no player takes on the 
role of the police. Instead, they are 
controlled by the police ops deck. All 
factions will draw from the police ops 
deck as the final step of their turn. 
Police ops cards can give orders to 
advance groups of riot cops around the 
city, deploy more riot cops or riot vans, 
reposition riot vans, etc. See page 13 
for detailed descriptions of each card.

BLOC BY BLOCSunrise Overview

After all factions have taken their turn, 
the Sunrise phase begins. Sunrise is 
also made up of 3 steps:

Step 1. Police Repression 

Any blocs or occupations in the same 
districts as police come under attack 
at Sunrise. Partially damaged riot vans 
are fully repaired and all riot vans and 
riot cops attack blocs and occupations 
in their districts. Defeated blocs and 
evicted occupations return to faction 
mats. See page 14 for a description of 
how riot vans and riot cops attack.

Step 2. District Liberation 

With a few exceptions, all district tiles 
have two sides, a repressed side and a 
liberated side. These districts start out 
repressed at the beginning of the game 
and, during the District Liberation 
step, factions have the opportunity to 
liberate districts. 

Liberation is not an action that factions 
can take during their turns, but instead 
happens automatically during this step 
if these two conditions are met:

1 The district must have an occupation 

built in it. Districts without an occu-
pation circle, such as Commercial 
districts, cannot be liberated.

QUICKSTART

2 The combined total number of blocs 
from all factions in that district must 
be equal to or greater than double the 
district’s difficulty.

There are 3 reasons to liberate 
districts:

• The district’s difficulty is always 

reduced by 1, making future actions 
in this district slightly easier.

• The occupation in this district gains 
its liberated ability, making it much 
more powerful.

• When a district is liberated, you 

get to draw the manifestation card 
underneath it, which unleashes a 
unique event that always benefits the 
factions.

See page 15 for details on District 
Liberation and manifestation cards.

Step 3. Next Night? 

Check if any of the endgame conditions 
(see below) have been met. If so, the 
game ends immediately. If not, pass 
the first faction marker to the left, 
move the countdown marker forward, 
and begin the next night.

Endgame Overview

The game can end in the Next Night step for any of the following reasons:

• The insurrection is successful: All State districts have occupations built in them 

by any combination of factions.

• Any faction trying to win alone completes their objectives: While every agenda 
card is unique, a shared requirement for all Vanguardist and Sectarian agendas 
is building occupations in at least 2 State districts. The Nihilist agenda requires 
at least 8 shopping centers to be burned.

• Any faction has zero blocs in the city: All factions lose. Ignore agenda cards.

• Time runs out & the military arrives: All factions lose. Ignore agenda cards.

When playing semi-cooperatively: 
Check to see which factions have 
completed all objectives for one of the 
options on their agenda card.

When playing fully cooperatively: 
All factions win together if the  
insurrection is successful. 

See page 16 for details on winning and 
losing the game.

PAGE 5

REFERENCE

District Guide

With a few exceptions, all district tiles have two sides: a 
repressed side and a liberated side. Districts start out 
repressed at the beginning of the game. 

During the Sunrise phase of each night, factions have the 
opportunity to liberate them to gain crucial advantages and 
a range of important benefits. See page 15 to learn about 
District Liberation.

REPRESSED SIDE

LIBERATED SIDE

3

2

5

4

1

1
     Type: There are 8 types of districts: 
Workers (yellow), Students (purple), 
Neighbors (green), Prisoners (orange), 
State (white), Public (gray), Commer-
cial, and highways.
2
     Occupation Circle: The colored 
circles indicate locations where the 
faction that matches the district type 
may build one of their occupations. For 
example, only the Prisoners can build 
an occupation in Prisoners districts. 
Any faction can build occupations in 
Public and State districts.

3
     Difficulty: Each district has a diffi-
culty number that shows how hard it 
is for factions to take advanced actions 
and attack actions in that district. 
Higher numbers are more difficult. 
The difficulty on the liberated side of a 
district tile is always 1 less than on its 
repressed side.
4
     Police ID & Letter: Each district has 
a unique police ID that the police ops 
deck references to determine police 
movement and deployment. The pointer 
below the police ID shows the correct 

edge to use when flipping the district 
tile after liberating the district, ensuring 
that the district tile does not change 
orientation. The letter to the left of the 
pointer is only used during setup.

5
     Shopping Center: Shopping carts 
represent shopping centers, which 
are locations where factions can loot 
to draw cards from the loot deck. 
Commercial districts have multiple 
shopping centers. Shopping centers 
never appear on the liberated side of 
district tiles.

Streets, Highways & Metro

9

6

7

8

     4-Way Street Intersection: The 
6
majority of districts have a standard 
4-way street intersection, giving blocs 
and riot cops full orthogonal access to 
and from adjacent districts.
7
     3-Way Street Intersection: Some 
districts have 3-way street inter-
sections, giving blocs and riot cops 
orthogonal access to and from 3 
adjacent districts. The 4th direction is a 

dead end, blocking access to and from 
that direction. The district blocked by the 
dead end is not considered adjacent.
8
     Highway: Highway districts connect 
two separate sets of diagonally 
adjacent districts. The connected 
districts are considered adjacent. 
Blocs and riot cops never stop on 
highways while moving between 
adjacent districts.

9
     Metro Station: Blocs may move 
between two districts without using  
the streets if both districts contain 
metro stations. Riot cops never use 
metro stations.

Edge of the City: All streets and 
highways ending at the edge of the 5 
x 5 grid of district tiles are treated as 
dead ends.

PAGE 6

BLOC BY BLOC

Random City Generator

First time playing? Use the  
beginner city shown on page 3.

Bloc by Bloc can be played on any 5 x 5 grid of district tiles arranged in any order 
and orientation as long as all districts are connected by streets or highways. 
Feel free to use the city generation process detailed below or experiment with 
creating your own city to play in.

REFERENCE

1. Shuffle and place 25 manifestation 
cards face down in a 5 x 5 grid: Leave 
about 1” between each card. Put the 
rest of the manifestation cards back in 
the game box.

3. Shuffle each of the 3 district piles: 
Make sure to shuffle each pile in terms 
of tile order within the pile while also 
shuffling the individual orientation of 
each tile.

MANIFESTATION

Manifestation Cards

2. Sort the district tiles, liberated side 
face down, into 3 piles by letter: Each 
district has a letter in a corner next 
to the police ID. Base game district 
tiles have the letters A, B, and C. Put 
all mini expansion district tiles, which 
have the letter D, and The Stadium 
district tile, which has the number “3”, 
back in the game box unless:

• 3 player game: Put the Financial 

District tile back in the game box and 
add The Stadium district tile into the 
A pile.

• Mini expansion games: See pages 
18-19 for modified setup steps for 
each scenario. Put any of the 4 mini 
expansion district tiles back in the 
game box if they are not required for 
the scenario’s modified setup.

You should now have 25 district tiles 
separated into A, B, and C piles.

Shuffle the order & the 
orientation of the tiles

4. Arrange the district tiles on top 
of the manifestation cards without 
reorienting each tile to face the same 
way: Place the top district tile from the 
A pile on top of the manifestation card 
in the top left corner of the grid so that 
the district tile completely covers the 
manifestation card. 

Do not change the orientation of each 
district tile as you place it in the grid. 
Do not reorient the tiles to all face 
the same way! Make sure the word 
“Liberated” is face down.

Correct: Shuffled orientation

Incorrect: Reoriented

Next, place the top district tile from 
the B pile on top of manifestation card 
directly to the right of the district tile 
from the A pile that you just placed. 

District Tiles

Finally, place the top district tile from 
the C pile to the right of the district tile 
from the B pile that you just placed.

Continue placing district tiles from 
each of the three piles in ABC order 
to complete the 5 x 5 grid. When you 
reach the end of a row, place the next 
district tile directly below the last 
district tile you placed to create a 
zigzag pattern (see below).

The final tile placed in the bottom right 
corner of the grid should be the last 
district tile from the A pile. All mani-
festation cards should be completely 
covered by the district tiles and there 
should be about 0.5” between each of 
the district tiles.

A

A

B

B

C

B

C

C

A

A

C

B

A

C

B

A

A

B

B

C

B

C

C

A

A

Example: Place the district tiles from 
each of the three piles in a zigzag ABC 

pattern to complete the 5 x 5 grid.

The Highway Overpass mini 

expansion district tile can be used 
in any game of Bloc by Bloc. During 
step 2, simply remove one of the 
other highway districts and place 
the Highway Overpass in the C 

district pile.

BLOC BY BLOC

PAGE 7

GAMEPLAY: SUNSET

Each round is 1 night. Each night has 2 parts:

Sunset: Each faction takes a turn. Each faction’s turn is 
made up of 3 steps (see below). The faction with the first 
faction marker goes first, followed by the faction to their 
left, and so on in clockwise order.

Sunrise: After all factions have taken their turns, police 
attack blocs and occupations in the same districts. Then, 
factions have the opportunity to liberate districts. At the end 
of Sunrise, the game ends if any of the endgame conditions 
have been met. See pages 14-15 for Sunrise steps.

Sunset Step 1. Roll Action Dice

At the start of your turn, form 1 bloc at your Start occupation by taking 1 bloc from 
your faction mat and placing it in the same district as your Start occupation. Then, 
count the number of blocs you now have in the city. Roll 3-5 action dice (see right) 
depending on the number of blocs you counted. Each rolled action die is used to 
take 1 action during your turn. It takes 1 action die to take 1 action. You cannot 
combine dice to increase their value. If you roll 4 action dice, you can take 4 actions.

Sunset Step 2. Faction Actions

MINIMUM

6+ BLOCS

9+ BLOCS

ROLL 4ACTION
3ACTION

ROLL 5ACTION

ROLL

DICE

DICE

DICE

For each action die you rolled in step 1, take one of the 
following actions. You can take the same action multiple 
times in the same turn. You can take actions in any order. 
You can only take actions in districts where you have blocs.

Basic Actions: Not in a clash 

To take a basic action, you can use a die of any value.

What is a Clash?

A bloc is considered to be in a clash any time it 
is in the same district with a riot van or riot cops. 
You can only take basic and advanced actions 
with blocs that are not in a clash and you can only 
take attack actions with blocs that are in a clash.

• Movement
• Barricade

Advanced Actions: Not in a clash

To take an advanced action, you must use an action die 
equal to or greater than the difficulty of the district that you 
are taking the action in. Because advanced actions are risky 
actions, you must make a reaction roll after taking each 
advanced action.

• Loot
• Build Occupation
• Swap Occupation

Attack Actions: Only in a clash

To take an attack action, you must use an action die equal 
to or greater than the difficulty of the district that you are 
taking the action in. You only have to make 1 reaction roll 
after all consecutive attack actions in the same clash.  
Each bloc can only attack once per clash each night.

• Defeat 1 Riot Cop
• Kick Out 2 Riot Cops
• Attack a Riot Van

What is a Reaction Roll?

When you take riskier actions, you must roll the reaction die 
to see if the police respond to your action. You must make 1 
reaction roll after each advanced action, but you only have 
to make 1 reaction roll after all consecutive attack actions in 
the same clash.

• If you roll a 1: The cops are called! Immediately take 1 riot 
cop from the staging area and place it in the district where 
you took the action. If there are no more riot cops in the 
staging area, nothing happens.

• If you roll a 2: Immediately draw and resolve 1 

police ops card. See pages 12-13 for information 
about police ops cards.

• If you roll a 3, 4, or 5: Nothing happens.

• If you roll a 6: If you have built the People’s Kitchen occu-

pation, then you get an extra action. Otherwise, nothing 
happens. See page 17 for a full description of the People’s 
Kitchen occupation.

PAGE 8

BLOC BY BLOC

SUNSET

Basic Action: Movement

Movement allows you to reposition your blocs to different 
districts in the city. To move blocs, use an action die of any 
value. Choose one or more of your blocs that are not in a 
clash. You may move any distance between two districts using 
any combination of streets, highways, and metro stations. 
There is no restriction on the number of districts your blocs 
can move through with one action.

What is a Mob? 

Any time 2 or more blocs from the same faction are in a 
district together they are considered a mob. You may move all 
blocs in a mob using only 1 action die if all of the blocs start 
in the same district and end in another district together.

Blocs cannot:

• Move through districts that contain police
• Move out of districts that contain police
• Move through dead ends or off the edge of the city
• Move diagonally except by using highways

Blocs can:

• Move through barricades
• Use any combination of streets, highways, and metro 

stations in 1 movement action

• End a movement action in districts that contain police

start

end

start

end

Example: The Workers faction takes 1 basic action 

to move a mob of 4 blocs to another district.

Example: The Prisoners faction takes 1 basic action to move a mob of 3 
blocs across the city using a combination of streets and metro stations.

Basic Action: Barricade

Barricades temporarily stop riot cops from moving into the 
district they are built around. See page 13 for information 
on how barricades stop riot cop movement. 

To barricade, use a die of any value. Choose a district where 
you have one or more blocs that are not in a clash. Place 
1 barricade between the district and any adjacent district. 
Each connection between two adjacent districts  
can hold a maximum of 3 barricades.

1 Barricade
Stops 1  
riot cop

2 Barricades

Stops half of riot  
cops (round down)

3 Barricades
Stops all  
riot cops

Example: The Neighbors faction takes 2 basic actions to 
build 2 barricades around a district using one of their blocs.

Example: The Students faction takes 3 basic actions to build 3 
barricades between different districts using one of their blocs.

Exchanging Loot 

During your turn, you can gift or trade loot cards with any other faction that has 
blocs in the same district as your blocs. This does not count as an action and an 
action die is not required.

PAGE 9

BLOC BY BLOCSUNSET

Advanced Action: Loot

Loot gives you a range of different 
one-time bonuses. Most loot cards 
can only be used during your turn, 
while others may only be used during 
Police Repression or District Liber-
ation. Each card specifies when you 
can play it. There is no limit to the 
number of loot cards you can have 
in your hand. You cannot reveal your 
hand to other factions, but you may 
tell them (truthfully or not) what you 

have. When the last loot card has 
been drawn, shuffle the discard pile to 
create a new deck.

To loot, choose a district that has a 
shopping center and one or more 
of your blocs that are not in a clash. 
Use a die equal to or greater than the 
district’s difficulty and draw 1 loot 
card. Place the loot token and make a 
reaction roll.

Unlooted  
Shopping 
Center

1st Loot  
Action: 
Graffiti

2nd Loot  
Action: 
Burn

Advanced Action: Build Occupation

Shopping centers can be looted twice:

1st - Graffiti: Place a loot token graffiti 
side up on the shopping center.

2nd - Burn: Flip the loot token so the 
burn side is face up. Burned shopping 
centers can no longer be looted.

You may use multiple Molotovs loot 

cards in the same attack action.

You cannot use the Medic Kit loot 

card if you do not have any  

occupations in the city.

Using a Fireworks loot card does 
not count as an attack action and 

requires its own reaction roll.

Each occupation you build in the city gives you an ongoing ability that you can use 
each turn. You can use an occupation’s ability as soon as it has been built, including 
in the same turn. See page 17 for detailed descriptions of each occupation ability.

To build an occupation, choose a district that has an occupation circle and one or 
more of your blocs that are not in a clash. Use an action die equal to or greater 
than that district’s difficulty. Select an occupation of your choice from your faction 
mat, place it in that district’s occupation circle, and make a reaction roll.

You cannot: Build occupations  
in districts corresponding to  
other factions.

You can: Build occupations in districts 
corresponding to your faction, Public 
districts, and State districts.

Advanced Action: Swap Occupation

Example: The Workers faction takes 1 

advanced action to build 1 occupation in a 
Workers district using one of their blocs.

In addition to building new occupations, 
you may also swap out an existing occu-
pation with one from your faction mat. 
You may swap out another faction’s 
occupation in State and Public districts.

To swap an occupation, choose one 
of your faction’s districts, a Public 
district, or a State district that has an 
occupation built in it and one or more 
of your blocs that are not in a clash. 
Use an action die equal to or greater 
than that district’s difficulty. Remove 
the occupation currently in the district, 
replace it with one of your choice 
from your faction mat, and make a 
reaction roll. The removed occupation 
is returned to the faction mat.

Example: The Neighbors faction takes 1 
advanced action to swap their Comrade 

Cafe for their People’s Kitchen in a  

Example: The Students faction takes 1 
advanced action to swap out a Prisoners 
occupation for one of their own in a Public 

Neighbors district using one of their blocs.

district using one of their blocs.

PAGE 10

BLOC BY BLOC

Stop an Advanced Action

The faction with the most blocs in a district may stop other factions on 
their turns from taking advanced actions in that district. In other words, 
if you have the most blocs in a district, you may stop another faction from 
looting, building occupations, or swapping occupations in that district.

If multiple factions are tied for  
the most blocs in a district, then  
no faction can stop other factions 

from taking advanced actions.

SUNSET

Attack Actions

To take an attack action, choose a district with one or more 
of your blocs that are in a clash. Use an action die equal 
to or greater than that district’s difficulty. Unlike advanced 
actions, you only have to make 1 reaction roll after all 
consecutive attack actions in the same clash.

 

Defeat 1 Riot Cop

Each bloc can only attack once per clash each night. If 
you want to make multiple attacks in the same clash, you 
must have enough blocs in the clash to make all the attack 
actions. If you want to defeat 3 riot cops, you must have 3 
blocs in the clash and 3 action dice equal to or greater than 
the district’s difficulty.

Take an attack action to defeat 1 riot cop and send it back to the staging area.

Kick Out 2 Riot Cops

Take an attack action to kick out 2 riot 
cops into an adjacent district. If riot 
cops are kicked out through barricades, 
the barricades are dismantled. Riot 
cops can be kicked out into an adjacent 
district connected by a highway.

Attack a Riot Van

Example: The Prisoners faction takes 1 
attack action with 1 bloc to defeat 1 riot 
cop and send it back to the staging area.

Example: The Students faction 
takes 1 attack action to kick out 2 
riot cops into an adjacent district.

Riot vans are more powerful than riot cops. A riot van takes 3 attacks in the same 
night to be destroyed. To mark when a riot van has been attacked and is damaged, 
flip it on its side after the first attack and flip it upside down after the second 
attack. After the third attack, the riot van is destroyed. Put destroyed riot vans 
back in the game box.

A riot van

1st Attack: 
flip on side

2nd Attack: 

flip over

3rd Attack: 

destroy!

Example: The Workers faction takes 2 
attack actions with 2 different blocs to 
defeat 2 riot cops and send them both 

back to the staging area. A third riot cop in 
the clash cannot be defeated because the 
Workers only have 2 blocs in the district.

If a district has a riot van and riot cops, you may choose 

whether to attack the riot van or the riot cops. 

Damaged but not destroyed riot vans do not respond to 
orders from police ops cards for the remainder of that 
night. See page 12 for information about police ops cards.

PAGE 11

BLOC BY BLOCSUNSET

Sunset Step 3. Police Ops

After taking all of your actions, draw 
1-3 police ops cards. Check the police 
morale track to determine how many 
cards you must draw. Read each 
card out loud one at a time and place 
resolved cards face up in the discard 
pile next to the police ops deck. When 
the last police ops card has been 
drawn, shuffle the discard pile to 
create a new deck.

How Does Police Morale Increase? 

When you draw a police ops card that 
says +1 police morale, immediately 
move the police morale marker forward 
1 step on the police morale track. 
Increases in police morale during the 
Police Ops step only take effect on the 
next faction’s turn. You do not need to 
draw more cards in response. 

Riot Cop Movement

The majority of police ops  
cards order groups of riot  
cops to advance into adjacent  
districts. See the opposite  
page for detailed descriptions  
of the other police ops cards.

How Do Riot Cops Move?

Groups of riot cops 

follow orders to move into 
adjacent districts & leave 1 

solo riot cop behind

Solo riot cops  
hold position

Riot cops in clashes  

hold position

Riot vans  
hold position

What is ID Priority? 

• 2 or more riot cops in the same district are considered 

a group. 1 riot cop by itself in a district (not counting riot 
vans) is considered solo.

• When a group of riot cops moves into an adjacent district, 

they always leave 1 solo riot cop behind.

• Riot cops always move to adjacent districts, even if they are 

already in a district of the type specified on the police ops 
card.

• Solo riot cops hold their positions and do not move.
• Riot cops in clashes hold their positions and do not move.
• Riot cop movement cards do not apply to riot vans.

R I O T   C O P   M O V E M E N T

RIOT COP MOVEMENT

Each district has a unique police ID. If a group of riot cops 
is adjacent to 2 or more districts of the type specified on the 
police ops card, then use the police ID priority as a tiebreaker 
to determine whether the riot cops move into the highest or 
lowest police ID district.

All groups of riot cops 
advance into adjacent

STATE

DISTRICTS

R I O T   C O P   M O V E M E N T

Riot cops in clashes  

A l l   g r o u p s   o f   r i o t   c o p s  
do not advance
i n t o   a d j a c e n t
a d v a n c e  
S T A T E
D I S T R I C T S
d o   n o t   a d v a n c e

i n   c l a s h e s  

R i o t   c o p s  

 

A l l   g r o u p s   o f   r i o t   c o p s  
i n t o   a d j a c e n t
a d v a n c e  
W O R K E R S
D I S T R I C T S
d o   n o t   a d v a n c e

i n   c l a s h e s  

R i o t   c o p s  

 

ID

Priority: HIGHEST
I D

P r i o r i t y :   H I G H E S T

P r i o r i t y :   H I G H E S T

I D

Example: A group of 2 riot cops is in a Commercial district 
when a police ops card is drawn ordering groups of riot cops 
to advance into adjacent Workers districts. 1 riot cop advances 

into the Workers district and 1 solo riot cop is left behind.

Example: A group of 4 riot cops is in a Public district when a 

police ops card is drawn ordering groups of riot cops to advance 
into adjacent State districts. Because there are 2 adjacent State 

districts, the riot cops must follow the police ID priority. The 
police ops card specifies that the police ID priority is Highest. 

The group of riot cops moves into the adjacent State district with 

the highest police ID and 1 solo riot cop is left behind.

Riot cops move to adjacent districts 
connected by streets and highways, 

but never use metro stations.

If a district is separated by a  
dead end, the riot cops do not 

move into it.

If an adjacent district is connected 
by 2 different highway districts, riot 
cops always use the highway with 

the fewest barricades.

PAGE 12

BLOC BY BLOCBarricades Stop Riot Cop Movement

When riot cops are ordered by a police ops card to advance 
into an adjacent district, but there are barricades blocking 
the way, some or all of the riot cops are stopped from 
moving. To determine how many riot cops are stopped from 
moving and how many advance, count the number of riot 
cops in the group, but do not count the 1 solo riot cop that 

is always left behind. Whenever any number of barricades 
stops 1 or more riot cops from moving, all the barricades are 
dismantled and return to the barricade pile. If 3 barricades 
stop 1 riot cop from moving, all 3 barricades are dismantled. 
Stopped riot cops hold their position. They do not return to 
the staging area.

SUNSET

1 Barricade

2 Barricades

Stops 1 riot cop. The rest of the group 
advances into the specified district.

Stop half of riot cops (round down). 

The rest of the group advances into the 

3 Barricades

Stop all riot cops.

specified district.

Example: A group of 4 riot cops is  
ordered to move into an adjacent 

Prisoners district. 1 solo riot cop is left 
behind, 1 riot cop is stopped from moving 
by 1 barricade, and the other 2 riot cops 
advance into the Prisoners district. The 

barricade is dismantled.

Example: A group of 6 riot cops is  
ordered to move into an adjacent 

Neighbors district. 1 solo riot cop is left 

behind, 2 riot cops are stopped from 

moving by 2 barricades (half of 5, rounded 
down), and the other 3 riot cops advance 
into the Neighbors district. Both barri-

cades are dismantled.

Example: A group of 5 riot cops is  

ordered to move into an adjacent Students 
district. 1 solo riot cop is left behind and 
the other 4 riot cops are stopped from 
moving by 3 barricades. All 3 barricades 

are dismantled.

REFERENCE

Types of Police Ops Cards

Riot Cop Movement: All groups of riot 
cops (not riot vans) throughout the city 
move into adjacent districts. See page 
12 for details.

Heavy Reinforcements & Light  
Reinforcements: Each riot van deploys 
1 or 2 riot cops from the staging area 
into the district where it is located. If 
there are not enough riot cops in the 
staging area to deploy the specified 
number of riot cops to all riot vans, 
then check the police ID priority 
specified at the bottom of the police 
ops card. Deploy riot cops starting with 
the riot van with the highest or lowest 
police ID as specified on the card.

Strategic Rotation: Find all districts 
with a group of 7 or more riot cops. 
Leave 6 riot cops in the district and 
send the rest back to the staging area. 
Districts with 6 or fewer riot cops are 
not affected.

Emergency Reinforcements: If there 
are fewer than 4 riot vans in the city, 
deploy 1 riot van from the staging area 
to the highest police ID district that 
has 1 or more riot cops, but no riot 
van. There can never be more than 1 
riot van in any district. If there are no 
more riot vans in the staging area or 
there are already 4 riot vans deployed, 
nothing happens.

Tactical Retreat: All solo riot cops 
return to the staging area. Solo riot 
cops in the same districts as riot vans 
or in clashes hold their position.

Maneuvers: Reposition all riot vans 
in the city to the districts with the 
highest police IDs that have a riot van 
or at least 1 riot cop. Do not deploy 

additional riot vans from the staging 
area. Do not place 2 riot vans in the 
same district. If there are 3 riot vans 
in the city, reposition them to the 3 
districts with the highest police IDs 
that have a riot van or at least 1  
riot cop.

Metro Lockdown: Factions are not 
allowed to use metro stations for 24 
hours. Place this card in front of the 
faction to your left and discard at the 
end of their next turn.

Chief of Police Fired: Set the Chief 
of Police Fired card aside. Shuffle 
all remaining cards in the police ops 
deck with all the cards in the police 
ops discard pile to form a new police 
ops deck. Place the Chief of Police 
Fired card as the first card in the new 
discard pile.

BLOC BY BLOC

PAGE 13

GAMEPLAY: SUNRISE

After all factions have taken their turns, the Sunrise phase begins. Sunrise is made up of 3 steps.

Sunrise Step 1. Police Repression

Any bloc or occupation in the same district as riot cops or riot vans at Sunrise is in danger.  
Perform the following in order:

A. Repair Riot Vans

All riot vans that were damaged but not destroyed during the 
night are repaired and reset to their original upright position.

or

reset to:

flipped on side

flipped over

original position

B. Riot Vans Attack

All riot vans defeat all blocs and evict 
occupations built in the same district. 
Factions place defeated blocs and 
evicted occupations back on their  
faction mats.

C. Riot Cops Attack

Each riot cop attacks once: 

• Riot cops always prioritize attacking 

blocs before occupations. When a 
riot cop attacks a bloc, the bloc is 
defeated and the faction places the 
bloc back on their faction mat.

• If there are no blocs for a riot cop 

to attack, it will attack occupations. 
When a riot cop attacks an occupa-
tion, the occupation is evicted and the 
faction places the occupation back on 
their faction mat.

• If blocs from more than one faction 

are in a district when riot cops attack, 
then the faction with the most blocs 
in the district decides which blocs are 
defeated. If two or more factions are 
tied for the most blocs in the district, 
then the tiebreaker is which faction 
took their turn first that night.

• After attacking, riot cops stay in the 

district. They do not return to the 
staging area.

Neither riot vans nor riot cops 
dismantle barricades during the 

Police Repression step.

PAGE 14

Example: A riot van in a Public 
district defeats 2 blocs and evicts  
the occupation.

Example: 3 riot cops defeat  

3 different blocs.

Example: 1 riot cop evicts a  

Students occupation.

Example: 2 riot cops defeat 2 Workers 

Example: 3 riot cops defeat 2 Neighbors 

blocs, but the occupation survives.

blocs and evicts the occupation.

Example: The Prisoners faction has the most 
blocs in the district and decides that 2 riot cops 
defeat 1 Neighbors bloc and 1 Prisoners bloc. 

BLOC BY BLOCSUNRISE

Sunrise Step 2. District Liberation

After Police Repression, factions have the opportunity to 
permanently liberate districts. When a district is liberated:

• The district difficulty is reduced by 1
• The occupation in the district gains its liberated ability
• Factions draw the manifestation card hidden underneath
• The manifestation card always reduces police morale

Liberation is not an action that factions can take during 
their turns. Liberation happens automatically if these two 
conditions are met during this Sunrise step:

1 The district must have an occupation built in it. Districts 

without an occupation circle, such as Commercial districts, 
cannot be liberated.

2 The combined total number of blocs from all factions in 
that district must be equal to or greater than double the 
district’s difficulty.

How to Liberate a District

A. Clear the district: Remove all loot tokens and place 
them back in the loot token pile. Set aside the blocs and the 
occupation. Do not return them to faction mats. 

B. Draw the manifestation card: Pick up the district tile. Do 
not change the district’s orientation. Pick up the manifesta-
tion card underneath the district tile.

C. Flip the district: Flip the district tile over so that the 
liberated side is now face up. Make sure to flip the district 
tile according to the direction arrow below the police ID to 
ensure that the district’s orientation is not changed after 
liberation. Put the blocs and occupation back on the district.

D. Resolve the manifestation card: Read the manifestation 
card out loud. After resolving it, put it back in the game box.

BEFORE

AFTER

MaSS looting

Each liberating faction may draw:

LIBERATED
DISTRICT

DIFFICULTY:

2
3
4
5

1 loot card

2 loot cards

3 loot cards

3 loot cards

-1 POLICE

MORALE

MANIFESTATION

Example: The Prisoners have built an occupation 

in a district with a difficulty of 4. 8 blocs are in 

the district, the minimum required for liberation, 
so the district is liberated and the Mass Looting 

manifestation card is drawn. 

Continued: Prisoners, Neighbors, and Students blocs helped to 

liberate the district, so those factions each receive the benefit from 
the manifestation card based on the difficulty on the liberated side 
of the district tile. In this case, the benefit is 2 free loot cards for 
each liberating faction. Police Morale is also lowered by 1 step.

Manifestation Cards: Each manifestation card unleashes  
a unique event that immediately benefits the factions.  
Manifestation cards always reduce police morale and they 
are the only way to reduce police morale.  

Most manifestation cards provide extra benefits to the  
liberating factions that have blocs in the district when the 
liberation occurs. In general, the higher the district’s  
difficulty, the better the benefit.

“Liberated District Difficulty” refers to the difficulty  

on the liberated side of the district tile.

If two or more manifestation cards revealing police ops 
cards are drawn in the same Sunrise, reveal the total 

sum of police ops cards from both manifestations.

Sunrise Step 3. Next Night?

Check to see if any of the endgame conditions have been met (see page 16).  
If so, the game ends immediately. If not, pass the first faction marker to the left, 
move the countdown marker forward, and begin the next night. If there are no 
more nights, time runs out and the military arrives.

PAGE 15

BLOC BY BLOCWINNING & LOSING

During the Next Night step of Sunrise, the game can end for the following reasons:

The Insurrection is Successful

The insurrection is successful if all State districts have occupations built in them. 

• Any faction can build occupations in any of the State districts. 
• State districts do not need to be liberated.
• State districts may have riot cops in them, as long as the riot cops did not evict 

the occupation during the preceding Police Repression step.

Any faction that completes the objectives on a “Win Cooperatively” agenda card 
option wins together. Multiple factions can win together.

When playing fully cooperatively: All factions win together.

The military is forced into action, 
deploying troops to the streets in 
extremely complicated conditions 
that are not in its favor. A massacre 
is avoided and the revolutionaries 
stand their ground. A tense stalemate 
ensues. The liberated zones of the 
insurrection remain autonomous and 
vibrant with potential. Suddenly, it 
seems anything is possible...

One Faction Wins Alone

Any faction that completes the 
objectives on a “Win Alone” agenda 
card option ends the game. They win 
by themselves and all other factions 
lose. Multiple factions pursuing “Win 
Alone” agenda card options cannot 
win together. If 2 or more factions 
simultaneously complete their “Win 
Alone” agenda card options, the 
game continues.

Vanguardist & Sectarian: The chaos of the insurrection evaporates as your 
forces sweep into power. The city is yours. The military agrees to pull back on the 
condition that your faction re-establishes law and order. What becomes of the 
other defeated factions is not your concern.

Nihilist: There is no going back. Time itself loses all meaning. Deluded by  
their dreams of revolution, the other factions cower in fear as fire consumes  
everything. What does it matter if the military arrives to secure their precious 
city? They will find only ashes.

Any Faction Has Zero Blocs in the City

If any faction has zero blocs in the 
city, all factions lose and agenda 
cards are ignored.

The insurrection implodes. Local police forces have no trouble restoring their 
authority and brutally crushing the last scattered remnants of the weakening 
revolt. All is lost.

Time Runs Out & The Military Arrives

If none of the above endgame condi-
tions have been met and there are no 
more nights, then time runs out and 
the military enters the city. The insur-
rection is not successful. All factions 
lose and agenda cards are ignored.

The military launches repressive counter-insurrection operations on its own 
terms. Helicopters fill the skies as assault teams cordon off districts of the city 
and conduct brutal house-to-house raids. Many revolutionaries disappear and 
a wave of reactionary violence scares all remnants of the insurrection off the 
streets and into hiding. Years of sadness follow.

PAGE 16

BLOC BY BLOCREFERENCE

Occupation Abilities

Each occupation you build in the city gives you an ongoing 
ability that you can use each turn. All factions have 3 occu-
pations that are identical and 2 that are unique. Occupations 

in liberated districts gain their liberated abilities. You may 
use an occupation’s ability as soon as it has been built. Only 
the faction that built the occupation may use its ability.

Common Occupations

Faction Start

Assembly Hall

People’s Kitchen

At the start of your turn, before rolling 
action dice, form 1 bloc in the district 
where this occupation is built.

Use an action die of any value to form 1 
bloc in the district where this occupa-
tion is built. You may use this ability 
once per turn. Liberated Ability: You 
may use this ability twice per turn.

When you roll a 6 on any of your 
reaction rolls, immediately roll 1 extra 
action die. Use this extra action die 
during this turn. You cannot save it for 
another turn. Liberated Ability: When 
you roll a 6 on any of your reaction rolls, 
immediately roll 2 extra action dice.

Prisoners Occupations

Workers Occupations

Molotov Factory

Strike Hall

When you use a Molotovs loot card, increase its strength  
by an additional +2. A +1 Molotovs becomes a +3 Molotovs 
and so on. You may use this ability once per turn.  
Liberated Ability: You may use this ability twice per turn.

Scavenger’s Hideout

For each loot action you take, draw 3 loot cards. Choose 2 to 
keep and discard the third. Liberated Ability: For each loot 
action you take, draw and keep 3 loot cards.

Neighbors Occupations

Guerrilla Garden 

Build 3 barricades using 1 action die around the district 
where this occupation is built. Liberated Ability: You may 
also use this ability when building barricades around all 
districts of this type.

Comrade Cafe 

Graffiti loot actions at all shopping centers become basic 
actions for you. Basic actions can be completed using an 
action die of any value and do not require a reaction roll.
Liberated Ability: Burn loot actions also become basic 
actions for you.

Building and swapping occupations become basic actions 
for you in the district where this occupation is built and in 
adjacent districts. Basic actions can be completed using 
an action die of any value and do not require a reaction 
roll. Liberated Ability: You may also use this ability in all 
districts of this type.

Propaganda Workshop

Draw 1 free loot card at any time during each turn without 
using an action die. Liberated Ability: Draw 2 free loot 
cards each turn.

Actions to build and swap occupations using the Strike 
Hall can still be stopped by another faction if that faction 

has the most blocs in the district where the action is 

taking place. See page 11 for details.

Students Occupations

Social Center

Take 1 free movement action each turn without using an 
action die. Liberated Ability: Take 2 free movement actions 
each turn.

Hacker Space

Loot actions using the Comrade Cafe can still be 

stopped by another faction if that faction has the most 
blocs in the district where the action is taking place. See 

page 11 for details on how to stop advanced actions.

Use an action die of any value to draw 2 loot cards. Choose 
1 to keep and discard the other. You may use this ability at 
any time during each turn. Liberated Ability: You may use 
this ability twice per turn.

BLOC BY BLOC

PAGE 17

10 SCENARIO MINI EXPANSION

The 10 scenario mini expansion includes 10 unique insurrection scenarios and 4 
special district tiles. Each scenario forces factions to re-think existing strategies 
in order to achieve new insurrectionary goals, often under unfamiliar conditions 
or while facing increasingly hostile police.

To setup for 2 or 4 players: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2. Then, modify 
the setup as specified in the scenario.

To setup for 3 players: Do not follow the usual 3 player setup steps on page 2. 
Instead, use the 4 player setup steps on page 2. Then, modify the setup for 3 
players as specified in the scenario.

Object of the scenario: 

In each scenario, factions must 
complete a unique objective that is 
different from the base game objective 
for the insurrection to be successful. 
All other rules for winning and losing 
the game still apply.

Autonomous Zone:  

Community Defense HQ

Autonomous Zone:  
Communal Gardens

Mega Mall

Highway Overpass

ROUTINE TRAFFIC STOP

Fully Cooperative Only
Intermediate Difficulty

ABOLISH THE POLICE

Fully Cooperative Only
Intermediate Difficulty

The insurrection is successful if: Barricades have been 
built at all highway entrances in the city.

The insurrection is successful if: All 6 riot vans have been 
destroyed and there are no riot cops left in the city.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2. 
Replace the Commercial district tile (police ID #1) with the 
Highway Overpass district tile. Place 5 riot cops total next to 
each riot van. Move the countdown marker to 6 nights left. 
Do not use the agenda deck.

3 Players: Use the modified setup above. Move the 
countdown marker to 8 nights left.

BURN DOWN THE COMPANY TOWN

Fully Cooperative Only
Intermediate Difficulty

The insurrection is successful if: All shopping centers in all 
Commercial districts have been burned down.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2, 
except do not deploy police as usual. Instead, replace the 
Interior Ministry district tile with the Mega Mall district 
tile. Place 1 riot van in each State district and 1 riot van in 
the Mega Mall. Place 4 riot cops total next to each riot van. 
Move the countdown marker to 6 nights left. Do not use the 
agenda deck.

3 Players: Use the modified setup above. Move the 
countdown marker to 8 nights left.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2, 
except do not deploy police as usual. Instead, place 1 riot 
van in each of the following districts: Telecom Network Hub, 
The Park, The Projects, The Old Polytechnic, Smartphone 
Factory, and Immigrant Detention Center. Place 3 riot cops 
next to each riot van. Each faction places 3 blocs total next 
to their Start occupation. Remove both Emergency Rein-
forcements cards from the police ops deck. Do not use the 
agenda deck.

3 Players: Use the modified setup above. Each faction 
places 4 blocs total next to their Start occupation.

OCCUPY EVERYTHING

Fully Cooperative Only
Intermediate Difficulty

The insurrection is successful if: All factions have built 
occupations in all of their own districts.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2. 
Each faction places 3 blocs total next to their Start occu-
pation. Move the countdown marker to 6 nights left. Do not 
use the agenda deck.

PAGE 18

BLOC BY BLOCM

I
N

I E

X

P

A

N

S
I
O

N

ASYMMETRICAL STRUGGLE

LET THE INFIGHTING BEGIN!

Semi-Cooperative or Fully Cooperative
Intermediate Difficulty

Semi-Cooperative Only
3 or 4 Players Only, Expert Difficulty

The insurrection is successful if: Each faction has built an 
occupation in 1 State district or built occupations in all of 
their own districts.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2. 
Place 4 riot cops total next to each riot van. When playing 
semi-cooperatively, remove the Nihilist card from the 
agenda deck.

3 Players: Use the modified setup above. Replace the 
Financial District tile with The Stadium district tile. Place 1 
riot van and 4 riot cops in The Stadium.

COLLECTIVE LIBERATION

Fully Cooperative Only
Expert Difficulty

The insurrection is successful if: All State districts have 
occupations built in them by any combination of factions.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2, 
except do not deploy police as usual. Instead, replace the 
Financial District tile with the Mega Mall district tile. Place 
1 riot van in each State district and 1 riot van in The Park 
district tile. Place 4 riot cops next to each riot van. Each 
faction places 3 blocs total next to their Start occupation. 
Move the countdown marker to 6 nights left.

Set aside the Nihilist and Vanguardist agenda cards. Shuffle 
the remaining agenda cards and set aside 1 card per faction 
face down. Put the rest of the agenda cards back in the 
game box without looking at them. Shuffle the Nihilist and 
Vanguardist cards with the set aside cards and deal 1 card 
to each faction. Put the remaining agenda cards back in the 
game box without looking at them.

The insurrection is successful if: 10 districts have  
been liberated.

3 Players: Use the modified setup above. Each faction 
places 4 blocs total next to their Start occupation.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2, 
except do not deploy police as usual. Instead, place 1 riot 
van in each of the following districts: Telecom Network Hub, 
Financial District, The Park, and The Plaza. Place 3 riot 
cops next to each riot van. Each faction places 2 blocs total 
next to their Start occupation. Do not use the agenda deck.

3 Players: Use the modified setup above. Each faction 
places 4 blocs total next to their Start occupation.

AUTONOMOUS ZONE PHASE I

Semi-Cooperative or Fully Cooperative
Expert Difficulty

The insurrection is successful if: All State districts have 
occupations built in them by any combination of factions.  
No faction can win if there are police in either of the  
Autonomous Zones.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 
2, except do not deploy police as usual. Instead, replace 
the Financial District tile with the Community Defense 
HQ district tile. Replace The Park district tile with the 
Communal Gardens district tile. Place 1 riot van in each 
State district and 1 riot van in The Plaza district. Place 3 riot 
cops next to each riot van. Each faction places 3 blocs total 
next to their Start occupation. Move the countdown marker 
to 6 nights left.

3 Players: Use the modified setup above. Move the 
countdown marker to 8 nights left.

SMASH THE STATE

Semi-Cooperative or Fully Cooperative
Expert Difficulty

The insurrection is successful if: All State districts have 
occupations built in them by any combination of factions 
and all State districts have been liberated.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2. 
Place 4 riot cops total next to each riot van.

3 Players: Use the modified setup above. Replace the 
Financial District tile with The Stadium district tile. Place 1 
riot van and 4 riot cops in The Stadium.

AUTONOMOUS ZONE PHASE II

Fully Cooperative Only
2 or 4 Players Only, Expert Difficulty

The insurrection is successful if: All districts adjacent to 
both Autonomous Zone district tiles have been liberated and 
there are no police in either Autonomous Zone.

Modified setup: Follow the usual setup steps on page 2. 
Replace The Park district tile with the Communal Gardens 
district tile. Replace 1 highway district tile with the 
Community Defense HQ district tile. Place 4 riot cops total 
next to each riot van. Each faction places 2 blocs total next 
to their Start occupation. Do not use the agenda deck.

PAGE 19

BLOC BY BLOCBLOC BY BLOC: THE INSURRECTION GAME 

VERSION 1.0 NOVEMBER 2016

Component List

• 40 Wooden Blocs, 10 per faction in four colors
• 30 Wooden Riot Cops, white
• 6 Wooden Riot Vans, white
• 40 Wooden Barricades, gray
• 1 Wooden Police Morale Marker, white
• 1 Wooden Countdown Marker, white
• 60 Loot Cards
• 34 Police Ops Cards
• 10 Agenda Cards
• 28 Manifestation Cards
• 30 Chipboard District Tiles
• 20 Chipboard Occupations Tokens, 5 per faction
• 42 Chipboard Loot Tokens
• 1 Chipboard Countdown Panel 
• 1 Chipboard Police Morale Panel
• 4 Chipboard Faction Mats
• 1 Chipboard First Faction Marker 
• 7 Action Dice, black 
• 1 Reaction Die, white
• 1 Rulebook
• 4 Cheatsheets
+ 1 Special Edition Zine

Special Thanks: AK Press, All Kickstarter Backers, Barry Kendall, 
Ben Simons, Bruce & Ian Paul, Charlie Furman, Clove & Raskl wsp, 
Cory Doctorow, Dave Hage, DDO Players, Disgruntled Gamers  
Coalition, Elizabeth Sy, Filastine, Global Uprisings, Greenbriar, 
Hunter, It’s Your Move, Jason Laske, Jay at Copy Central, Jen Angel, 
Karlee Esmailli, Mary Beth Schuler, Max Bittman, Moxie, Nick Haas,  
Sakura & Darius, Sherief Gaber, Syd, Victory Point Cafe, Vivian 
Brown, Yumi Havemeyer

Playtesters: Aaron Rhodes, Aaron Todd, Adriane Bovone, Alexis, 
Alfred Twu, Andrew Wan, Andy Voellmer, April Thomas, April Walsh, 
Aragorn!, Ash Lynette, Ayr, Bea Flowers, Becca Beddingfield, Becky 
Rhodes, Beegee, Ben Allen, Brian Helmle, Burpasaurus, Carter Lavin, 
Chris Adams, Chris Reiner, Christopher Chun, Cosmo, CrimethInc, 
Darius Aliabadi, David McCracken, Debbie, Doug Williams, Dr Alana 
Svetlana, Dustin Boyle, Eliot Miller, Elizabeth Fraser, Elizabeth 
Turner, Emily, Erica Maharg, Erich Guglielmelli, Ginny Browne, 
Hannah Rogge, Heather Tzang, Ian Campbell, Isabelle Luebbers, 
Jamie Graham, Jasper Bernes, Jay Billz, Jazz Lyles, Jim McCollum, 
Joe Feldman, John Treviranus, Joshua Muscat, Justin Dunlap, Justin 
Hinojoza, Kassia Korkus, Kelly Iknayan, Kenneth Hoppe, Lea Grunde, 
Lee Reis, Liam Odonoghue, Lynisha Perkins, Mabel Lam, Magpie, 
Mara Schechter, Margaret Mary Downey, Mark & Ashleigh Halverstadt, 
Mark Burdett, Mark Galpin, Mary Virginia Watson, Max Harris, Max 
Lee, Melody Lee, Michael McCown, Nicole Puller, Noah, Ophir Bruck, 
Paolo, Patrick, Paul Bissember, Paul Jones, Peppy, Pete Kobylarz,  
Raquel, Rebecca Berzof, Regan Brashear, Reneé Lepreau, Rob 
Connell, Ryan Casey, Sadie Joy, Sarah Jo Szambelan, Sarah Shourd, 
Sarolta Jane, Sheila Seles, Soraya Okuda, Tabatha Joseph, Ted, Ted 
Tagami, Tim Minezaki, Tobias Smith, Tom Denton, Tom Fosse, Tori 
Partridge, Vanessa Chen, Virgil Maro, West

Bloc by Bloc: The Insurrection Game by Out of Order Games 
is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution- 
NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.

A PROJECT OF

outofordergames.com

